---
title: How to randomly select an item from a list?
date: 2022-01-26 00:00
description: Different ways to randomly select an item from a list in python
tags: Python, Basics
path: random;y-select-item-from-list
author: Rahul Banerjee
---

In this tutorial, we will look at different ways to select a random item from a list. Let's assume you have a list with multiple Twitter user names and you are trying to select a random Twitter user. Below is a sample list of Twitter user names

```python
twitter_user_names = [
 '@rahulbanerjee99',
 '@python_engineer',
 '@FCBarcelona',
 '@FerranTorres20',
 '@elonmusk',
 '@binance',
 '@SpaceX'
]
```
## Random Library
The random library is a built-in python library, i.e you do not have to install it. You can directly import it. We will look at 3 different ways to select a random item from a list using the random library

### 1. Random Index
```python
import random 
num_items = len(twitter_user_names)
random_index = random.randrange(num_items)
winner = twitter_user_names[random_index]
print(winner)
'''
OUTPUT: @binance
'''
```
**random.randrange(num_items)** returns a random number between 0 and num_items - 1. So we basically get a random index that we can use to access an element from our list.

### 2. Single Random Element
```python
winner = random.choice(twitter_user_names)
print(winner)
'''
OUTPUT: @SpaceX
'''
```

**random.choice** takes a sequence like a list as a parameter and returns a random element from the list. In our case, we simply pass the twitter_user_names list.

### 3. Multiple Random Element
```python
winners = random.sample(twitter_user_names,2)
print(winners)
'''
OUTPUT: ['@python_engineer', '@rahulbanerjee99']
'''
```
***random.sample** is similar to **random.choice**, the main difference being that you can specify the number of random elements you want. In the above code snippet, I got two random Twitter user names. **random.sample** returns a list.

In some cases, you might want the same random element(s) to be returned by the random library. The following line of code ensures that the same random element(s) will be generated whenever you run your script. This can be useful when you are debugging and want your script to produce consistent outputs.
```python
random.seed(0)
```
**random.seed** takes an integer parameter. If you pass a different parameter other than 0, you will get a different random element(s).

## Secrets library
The Secrets library is preferred over the Random library since it is more secure. You can install it using the following command
```bash
pip3 install secrets
```
### 1. Random Index
```python
import secrets
random_index = secrets.randbelow(num_items)
winner = twitter_user_names[random_index]
print(winner)
'''
OUTPUT: @binance
'''
```
This is similar to **random.randrange**. We get a random index between 0 and num_items - 1 and use it to access an element from our Twitter user names list.

### 2. Single Random Element
```python
winner = secrets.choice(twitter_user_names)
print(winner)
'''
OUTOUT: @binance
'''
```
This is similar to **random.choice** and returns a random element from the list passed as a parameter.

### 3. Multiple Random Elements
```python
winners = secrets.SystemRandom().sample(twitter_user_names,2)
print(winners)
'''
OUTPUT ['@SpaceX', '@binance']
'''
```
This is similar to **random.sample** and lets you pass the number of rand items you want as a parameter. This method returns a list.

Unlike **random.seed**, you can not use a seed to keep the random element(s) generated by the secrets library consistent. 

